---
title: 15th Workflows in Support of Large-Scale Science – WORKS 2020 @SC20
image: /assets/images/news/works20.png
description: Scientific workflows have been almost universally used across scientific domains and have underpinned some of the most significant discoveries of the past several decades. Workflow management systems (WMSs) provide abstraction and automation which enable a broad range of researchers to easily define sophisticated computational processes and to then execute them efficiently on parallel and distributed computing systems. As workflows have been adopted by a number of scientific communities, they are becoming more complex and require more sophisticated workflow management capabilities. A workflow now can analyze terabyte-scale data sets, be composed of one million individual tasks, require coordination between heterogeneous tasks, manage tasks that execute for milliseconds to hours, and can process data streams, files, and data placed in object stores. The computations can be single core workloads, loosely coupled computations, or tightly all within a single workflow, and can run in dispersed computing platforms.
date: 10 April 2020
layout: post
categories:
    - conference
---

The <a href="http://works-workshop.org" target="_blank">15th Workflows in Support of Large-Scale Science (WORKS)</a> Workshop will be held in conjunction with <a href="https://sc20.supercomputing.org/" target="_blank">SC20</a> on Sunday November 15, 2020 in Atlanta, GA.

---

#### Important Dates

- **August 15, 2020** – Full paper deadline
- **September 15, 2020** – Paper acceptance notification
- **October 1, 2020** – E-copyright registration completed by authors
- **October 1, 2020** – Camera-ready deadline
- **November 15, 2020** – Workshop

---

#### Workshop Description

Scientific workflows have been almost universally used across scientific domains 
and have underpinned some of the most significant discoveries of the past several 
decades. Workflow management systems (WMSs) provide abstraction and automation 
which enable a broad range of researchers to easily define sophisticated 
computational processes and to then execute them efficiently on parallel and 
distributed computing systems. As workflows have been adopted by a number of 
scientific communities, they are becoming more complex and require more 
sophisticated workflow management capabilities. A workflow now can analyze 
terabyte-scale data sets, be composed of one million individual tasks, require 
coordination between heterogeneous tasks, manage tasks that execute for 
milliseconds to hours, and can process data streams, files, and data placed in 
object stores. The computations can be single core workloads, loosely coupled 
computations, or tightly all within a single workflow, and can run in dispersed 
computing platforms. 

This workshop focuses on the many facets of scientific workflow management 
systems, ranging from actual execution to service management and the coordination 
and optimization of data, service, and job dependencies. The workshop covers a 
broad range of issues in the scientific workflow lifecycle that include: 
scientific workflows representation and enactment; workflow scheduling 
techniques to optimize the execution of the workflow on heterogeneous 
infrastructures; workflow enactment engines that need to deal with failures in 
the application and execution environment; and a number of computer science 
problems related to scientific workflows such as semantic technologies, compiler 
methods, scheduling and fault detection and tolerance.
